From the Real Time Analytics ... Concepts.pdf

### Recommendation Systems

The volume challenge of [[big data]] makes it difficult to identify the information, product, or location that we seek
or that is suitable for us. Numerous categories, such as movies, games, electronic equipment, transport routes, and
holiday spots, utilize recommendation algorithms that impact the decision-making process. Due to the inadequacies of one
of the most extensively used recommendation algorithms, the least squares algorithm (LSA), the Spark framework was
utilized to construct a recommendation algorithm. It has been shown to produce better results than the ALS algorithm
in (Xie et al., 2016). In addition to real-time analytical technologies, interactive systems are also available. The
process of film review was carried out utilizing a user-scoring system, and suggestions were made by evaluating safe
video content (Yang et al., 2017). In (Jiang et al., 2016), individuals were provided trip suggestions based on their
own travel information and their interests

### Health Care Services

In different sections of the healthcare industry, various measuring instruments are used for diagnosis, and the data
generated by these equipment is analyzed. It is applied in automatic patient monitoring and telemedicine services, as
examples of the aforementioned application sectors (Sudhakar Yadav et al., 2018). In addition to real time analytical
technologies, interactive systems are also available. Patients were exposed to the mHealth application, which use
virtual reality glasses to improve the user experience in high-pressure rooms and assess the efficacy of medicinal
equipment (Lv, Chirivella, et al., 2016). Voice recordings of patients can be used to analyze the healing process. Using
image processing, a variety of diseases have been identified.

### Smart Cities

Geographical location data and urban traffic data are sources of big data generation. Numerous studies have been
performed to extract information from this vast volume of data. Additionally, several experiments were undertaken in
virtual settings. With the development of urban technology, the usage of intelligent devices has begun to increase. This
subject has been the subject of much research, as has the notion of a smart and connected community in cities,
especially in light of the development of IoT. The generation of enormous quantities of IoT data for analysis and the
analysis of structured data are essential to the urbanization process. In (Hegde et al., 2021),
the [[real-time data processing]] tools Flink, Spark, Flume, and Storm for the production of smart city data are
investigated. Smart cities use both analytical technologies and real-time systems. Using mobile resources and IoT data
from the community (Sun et al., 2015), it hopes to adopt more suitable actions for the city's life and future goals.
In (Lv, Li, et al., 2016), a geographic information system for virtual reality-based smart city efforts is described.
Their web platform includes information on city residents, traffic, and three-dimensional representations of buildings.
Real-time loading and processing of data obtained based on customer requirements.

### Crisis Management

In emergency situations, rapid decisions are required. For instance, in the fight against fire, timely decisions by
firefighters might prevent possible losses or injuries. The structure of the hazardous elements in the environment and
the quick collection of comparable data remove the need for incorrect responses in the case of a potential fire. Teams
of graduate students from the Brazilian Aviation Technology Institute (de Castro Martins et al., 2018) conducted a
warning and crisis management project using big data and IoT for crisis management by employing [[Apache Hadoop]]
and [[Apache Spark]] real-time analytical technologies. Additional interactive systems are accessible. To address these
challenges in firefighting, a smart firefighting system that can interpret data from fire sensors in real time is a
helpful tool for firefighters to make timely choices and prevent losses (Beata et al., 2018). Moreover, IDCAP platform
was introduced in (Aydin & Anderson, 2017) with the intention of enabling real-time data collecting and analytics to
enable crisis informatics research. The IDCAP utilizes cutting-edge data processing ([[Apache Spark]]) and NoSQL storage
technologies (Redis, [[Apache Cassandra]]) to monitor and analyze tweets in real time.

### Economy

Perhaps economists have the most need for data analysis. Rapidly-changing economic data necessitates realtime data
analysis to enhance economic forecasting and provide reliable predictions utilizing past data. [[Apache Spark]] was
utilized by the Simple Grid Project to do statistical analysis and data categorization, as well as execute project
programs (Gavrilenko et al., 2019) by enabling the employment of specialist software in the processing of economic data.
Croushore and Stark also built quarterly data sets for macroeconomics to determine the impact of data changes on
estimations (Croushore & Stark, 2001).

### Energy Systems

Intelligent power grids are becoming increasingly common in the electricity management system. In order to save
resources, energy consumption and generation data must be collected, stored, and analyzed using a smart grid. Depending
on the application domain, the design of real-time data analysis systems differs. Existing real time data analysis and
NOSQL data storage technologies are investigated for a real-time smart grid design, and a distributed energy data
management system is addressed and tested in a real location (Gibadullin et al., 2019). In the context of the Energy
Data Lake project, batch and flow data processing, storage, and collection technologies such as Apache
NIFI, [[Apache Flume]], Apache Sqoop, and [[Apache Spark]] were examined and implemented into the system architecture (
Hamadou et al., 2020). In (Krishnamoorthy & Udhayakumar, 2021), a system is shown for analyzing data from wind energy
sources and managing energy for power distribution using Hadoop and [[Apache Spark]].

### IoT

Smart phones, household appliances, and wearable devices that can connect to the internet and communicate with one
another outside of computers introduced the phrase "Internet of Things" (IoT) to the world of technology. Numerous
researchers have undertaken IoT related research and continue to do so. The major emphasis of the study was on the
system's hardware sensor detection and content delivery networks. The architecture of the IoT network and the storage
and analysis of the data have not been studied due to the proliferation of technology, the rise in the amount of data
generated, and the complexity of linkages. The investigation conducted by the authors of (Verma et al., 2017) comprised
research on IoT analytics use cases, real-time technology analysis, and network technique. Equally essential are data
security and management, such as the processing and storage of flow data on IoT devices (Nambiar et al., 2020). For IoT
data control, research is conducted on how to specify and implement [[Apache Storm]]'s access control on streaming data.
In smart cities, IoT devices create massive amounts of data that must be processed quickly. Three unique frameworks were
selected and examined in terms of scalability and resource consumption (Nasiri et al., 2019) in order to evaluate the
effectiveness of high-throughput data processing tools on IoT data for varied applications. In addition, research is
conducted on real-time applications that enable mobile devices to become an integral part of our lives and save time due
to workload, especially in large cities, and that enable IoT-based smart devices to be controlled remotely and provide
instant notification in cases such as home security and fire (Erzi & Aydin, 2020).