Apache Cassandra is a highly scalable, high-performance distributed database designed to handle large amounts of data
across many commodity servers, providing high availability with no single point of failure. It is often used in
scenarios requiring [[real-time data processing]] and batch processing due to its ability to handle high write loads and
provide fast read latencies. Let's explore how Cassandra can be utilized for both real-time and batch processing
scenarios.

### [[Real-Time Data Processing]] with Cassandra

Cassandra is well-suited for [[real-time data processing]], especially when dealing with high-volume transactions. Its
design emphasizes high availability, partition tolerance, and eventual consistency, making it an excellent choice for
applications that require consistent performance under heavy load. For real-time applications, such as feature stores,
Cassandra can serve features with a typical p99 latency of less than 23 milliseconds, as demonstrated by its use by
companies like Uber and Netflix

Cassandra's ability to handle high write loads with minimal impact on read latency makes it ideal for scenarios where
data needs to be updated frequently and accessed quickly. This characteristic is particularly beneficial for real-time
feature stores, where features are computed in real-time and then potentially recomputed in batch, with discrepancies
updated in both the real-time and batch systems

### Batch Processing with Cassandra

While Cassandra shines in real-time scenarios, it also supports batch processing through its support for Hadoop,
allowing it to integrate with Hadoop-based batch processing jobs. This integration enables the use of Cassandra as a
data store for batch processing tasks, such as data aggregation and analysis, by leveraging Hadoop's MapReduce framework

Cassandra's support for batch processing is particularly useful in time-series data scenarios, where raw data is
ingested and then aggregated over time periods (hourly, daily, monthly) for reporting purposes. By maintaining an index
of newly ingested keys and running scheduled jobs to fetch and aggregate data, Cassandra can efficiently manage the
storage and processing of time-series data in a batch manner

### Conclusion

Apache Cassandra's architecture and features make it versatile for both real-time and batch processing scenarios. Its
high availability, scalability, and low-latency characteristics make it suitable for real-time applications, while its
integration with Hadoop enables effective batch processing. Whether you're building a real-time feature store or
managing time-series data for reporting, Cassandra offers a robust and scalable solution that can meet the demands of
modern data-intensive applications.