Complex Event Processing (CEP), also known as event stream processing, is a technology used for querying data in
real-time before it is stored in a database, or in some cases, without it ever being stored. This technology aggregates
various types of information to identify and analyze cause-and-effect relationships among events in real-time, allowing
for proactive and effective actions in response to significant business events such as opportunities or threats. CEP is
particularly useful for detecting complex patterns based on temporal or spatial relationships, handling high volumes of
input events per second, and achieving low latency in processing these events

CEP emerged in the early 1990s as a set of concepts and techniques designed for processing real-time events and
extracting valuable information from event streams as they arrive. Its primary goal is to identify meaningful events in
real-time situations and respond to them swiftly. These events can span across various domains, including sales leads,
customer service calls, social media posts, stock market feeds, traffic reports, and more. CEP has evolved into an
enabling technology in numerous systems that facilitate immediate action in response to incoming streams of events,
finding applications in stock market trading systems, mobile devices, fraud detection, transportation, and governmental
intelligence

The benefits of CEP include synthesizing meaningful business information from raw data, organizing information into
high-level concepts by considering different time frames, contexts, and causal relationships within the data. This
capability enables companies to respond to business opportunities and threats consistently and rule-based. As real-time
data becomes increasingly abundant, CEP plays a crucial role in event-driven architectures

Historically, CEP began with work by Professor David Luckham at Stanford University in the 1990s, focusing on
distributed programming languages that could run in parallel and communicate through events. Luckham introduced the
concept of complex events to describe higher-level events derived from a series of lower-level events, outlining three
core principles of CEP: synchronization of event timings, event hierarchies, and causation. Today, CEP's techniques for
identifying, analyzing, and processing data in real-time are foundational to many business projects, often underpinning
strategic initiatives labeled as 'Business Analytics' and 'Optimization'

CEP is distinguished from event stream processing (ESP) or [[real-time data processing]] primarily by its ability to
process multiple events from multiple incoming data points simultaneously, whereas ESP focuses on processing events in
the order they arrive. Despite these differences, both technologies operate in real-time and provide insights into data
streams, with CEP generally associated with more sophisticated pattern recognition and dependency analysis 